# Melanie Forehand

## PhD Candidate, Department of Spanish and Portuguese at Vanderbilt University

### Dissertation: Parables and Parabolas of Spanish Civil War Exiles

Parables and Parabolas examines representations of the Spanish Civil War exile subject living in exile in Mexico from 1937 to 1950 and engages theories of the spatial politics of affect, national identity, and cultural studies. This study considers how works from the exile community addressed an underlying paradox of their exile condition—how to advocate for and maintain a specific set of political and cultural aims for a nation in which they no longer lived. A resistance form that I characterize as parabolic, this project highlights how the exiles combined the spatial, the narrative, and the aesthetic to provide the guiding imagery that oriented bodies toward their transatlantic, hispanismo perspective.

By viewing cultural production through a parabolic lens, my research expands on exile studies from scholars such as Claudio Guillén, Michael Seidel, and Sophia McClennen to demonstrate how concepts of home and host, past and present, and inner and outer exile took shape for this exiled community. My first chapter draws from affect theory to elucidate how the parabolic form of exiled architect Félix Candela’s buildings is an expression of an ideology based in transcendence. Chapter two of my dissertation details how the exile magazine España Peregrina transmuted their ancestral Spanish periodical form to create a transatlantic public sphere, or more appropriately, a public parabola in Mexico. In chapter three, I study Josep Renau’s mural España hacia América as an example of both acted and visual parables in order to explore how the production and spatial arrangement of public art invite the viewer to turn a critical eye toward the Franco regime’s use of Spanish historical figures and to embrace a relationship based in transculturality and universality. In my final chapter, I read Emeterio Payá Valera’s memoir Los niños de Morelia: El exilio infantil en México alongside digital humanist Matthew Jockers’ study of plot shapes and a sentiment analysis to identify the parabolic shape contained deep in the author’s narrative structure. By applying a parábola-based framework, my study offers new insights into how these examples of autobiography, architecture, magazines, and artwork manifest the exiles’ nostalgic and critical reflections on their homeland and their utopic world view known as hispanismo.


### Digital Humanities Projects


### Center for Second Language Studies
Melanie Forehand is the Program Assistant at the Center for Second Language Studies at Vanderbilt University.The Center for Second Language Studies (CSLS) provides language support for a variety of stakeholders at the university and the broader community.My duties at the Center for Second Language Studies include organizing our annual foreign language fair, planning our monthly professional development workshops, and overseeing and mentoring a team of graduate students. Over the past two years, I have organized workshops on developing effective study abroad programs, best practices in language coordination, and effective methods for online teaching. I am also the co-creator of the digital language-teaching lesson repository, Language Panda (www.languagepanda.org). As a co-creator, I have developed a variety of lessons using digital tools such as Google Form quizzes with embedded media and text, Voyant Tools for text analysis, Flipgrid speaking exercises, and Edpuzzle videos with embedded comprehension questions for formative assessment. At the Center, I currently lead two weekly working groups, Language Panda Project Development for Faculty and Graduate Students and Teaching with Technology. Recent topics that I have discussed with the teaching community have included ADA accessibility, creating effective listening exercises, and out-of-the-box tech tools.


### personal website
